Welcome back to digital
forensic concepts.
In module two, we're going to
talk about IP and MAC addresses.
Now in IP address and IP
stands for Internet Protocol,
can be either a V4
or a V6 address.
A V4 address is a
set of 12 numbers,
and it's all decimal numbers,
and it's 32 bits.
It is going to be separated
by dots in sets of three.
We can see our example
up on the screen.
We have 159.181.222.133.
That would be an example
of an IP V4 address.
An IP V6 address is made up of
eight two-byte values
separated with colons,
be colon-separated,
and is 128 bits long.
Now, the reason we needed IP V6
is because we ran out
of IP V4 addresses.
You can see our example of
our IP V6 address down below.
You can see that
it has two bytes.
We all know that two
hexadecimal bytes are
represented by four characters.
We have four digits,
or it's alphanumeric.
It could have letters and digits.
Each of those sets of four
is separated by a colon.
Now, we touched on this earlier
about traffic comes
into your router in
your network and then the
router routes it out to
the individual computers
using the IP address.
What the router is doing
is something called
NAT or Network
Address Translation.
Now, what it does is it takes
your private IP address,
if I want to send a message
from my computer and
it changes it into a
public IP address and
then sends my message out over
the Internet or the
private network
depending on where you are.
It can do vice-versa.
If it has traffic coming in
to the public IP address,
it needs to translate that
to the private IP address in
order to know which computer on
the network to send
that message to.
The public IP address
is the one used
by your gateway, which
will be your router,
your firewall, and
all your devices
inside the network are going to
have private IP addresses.
They usually start
with a 192 or 168.
Now, we're going to talk about
Domain Name Service or DNS.
DNS is the service that
translates your web address,
like say, InfoSec Institute.com,
into an IP address.
It will also translate the
IP address back to the URL.
It is a hierarchical and
decentralized system.
Your administrator can configure
what type of DNS you use.
There are some examples
up there on the screen,
we have open DNS,
Google DNS, and advantage DNS.
Your network administrators will
configure which DNS
they're going to use.
That stands for
Domain Name Service.
Now, a MAC address,
which this would be
how switches route traffic
through the MAC address,
whereas routers use the IP.
Our MAC address is burnt
into our network card.
Every single one of our
devices is going to
have this unique MAC address.
It's unique to each
device on the network.
The MAC address is made up of
six one-byte hexadecimal numbers
that are separated by colons.
We can see an example down there.
This again is hexadecimal,
so it will be alphanumeric.
It's E0:15:B2:AB:FE:61.
This is an example
of a MAC address.
In our next module,
we're going to cover
network protocols.
These are the protocols
and the rules that are
used on the network
that allows us to
route traffic from
our machines to
the internet or from
our machines to another
computer in our local network.